Writerside/topics/hms-mirror-iceberg_migration.md, before:

# ICEBERG_MIGRATION

This process will look at Hive tables, evaluate if the table is a candidate for migration to Iceberg, and then migrate the table to Iceberg.

Specify `-d ICEBERG_CONVERSION` as the DataStrategy to run the Iceberg Migration.

This process uses Hive SQL to build(and run) the conversion scripts.  These are "inplace" migrations.

The following options apply to the Iceberg Migration:
- `-iv|--iceberg-version` - The Iceberg version to use.  Default is 1.  Can be 1 or 2.
- `-itpo|--iceberg-table-property-overrides` - A comma separated list of table properties to override.  See the Iceberg Table Properties available [here](https://iceberg.apache.org/docs/latest/configuration/#configuration) and [CDP Properties](https://docs.cloudera.com/cdw-runtime/cloud/iceberg-how-to/topics/iceberg-table-properties.html)

## Requirements

- Requires Hive with Iceberg Support.
  - CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.9 Hive does NOT support Iceberg.
  - CDP Private Cloud CDW 1.5.1 Hive does support Iceberg.  You need CDW Data Services 1.5.1 or higher.
  - CDP Public Cloud Hive does support Iceberg as of August 2023 (Datahub and CDW)

## Caution

Make sure you know the component limitations with Iceberg Tables [here](https://docs.cloudera.com/cdp-public-cloud/cloud/cdp-iceberg/topics/iceberg-in-cdp.html) so you aren't caught by surprise.

Commit message:

**What's New** BETA Iceberg conversion support for the STORAGE_MIGRATION data strategy. See [Iceberg Conversion](hms-mirror-iceberg_migration.md) for more details.
**Bugs (Fixed)**
[Add to connection init the ability to set the queue AND trigger an engine resource](https://github.com/cloudera-labs/hms-mirror/issues/173)
[https://github.com/cloudera-labs/hms-mirror/issues/168
Validate SQL elements before making changes to the Cluster](https://github.com/cloudera-labs/hms-mirror/issues/168)
[Extend the HS2 connection validation with Tez task validation](https://github.com/cloudera-labs/hms-mirror/issues/167)
[The reset-to-default-location doesn't seem to be working in v2](https://github.com/cloudera-labs/hms-mirror/issues/165)

Writerside/topics/hms-mirror-iceberg_migration.md, after:

# ICEBERG_MIGRATION

This process will look at Hive tables, evaluate if the table is a candidate for migration to Iceberg, and then migrate the table to Iceberg.

Currently the conversion of Hive Table Format to Iceberg is supported through the [STORAGE_MIGRATION](storage_migration.md) data strategy.  Efforts are in place to extend this conversion to SCHEMA_ONLY and SQL data strategies.

![iceberg_conversion.png](iceberg_conversion.png)

Simply 'enable' the conversion and all tables covered by the data strategy will be converted to Iceberg.  You can 
also determine which iceberg table format to apply to the table.

## Requirements

- Requires Hive with Iceberg Support.
  - CDP Private Cloud Base 7.1.9 Hive does NOT support Iceberg.
  - CDP Private Cloud CDW 1.5.1 Hive does support Iceberg.  You need CDW Data Services 1.5.1 or higher.
  - CDP Public Cloud Hive does support Iceberg as of August 2023 (Datahub and CDW)

## Caution

Make sure you know the component limitations with Iceberg Tables [here](https://docs.cloudera.com/cdp-public-cloud/cloud/cdp-iceberg/topics/iceberg-in-cdp.html) so you aren't caught by surprise.
